Creating PostHog vs Matomo (#3503)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-matomo.md

        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Zendesk</td>
			<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
          <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>       
    	</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Strengths of PostHog

![PostHog screenshot](../images/blog/gdpr-compliant-analytics/posthog-gdpr-compliant.png)

### Feature Flag functionality

Feature Flags are at the core what makes PostHog a great tool for product-lead businesses. They're especially useful for gradually rolling out new features, and quickly rolling back if you detect problems, but they can be used in other creative ways. 

Need feedback on a design change? Roll it out to internal users first to gather feedback. Need to optimize messaging for different regions or demographics? Use a feature flag targeted on user properties. Want to change something without the CEO noticing? Create a flag just for them. Ok, we don't actually recommend the latter, but you get the idea.

> Feature flags also integrate with other analytics insights, so you can breakdown a conversion funnel by a feature flag, or filter trends, paths, and numerous other insights by specific feature flags. The combination of [Feature Flags](product/feature-flags) and product analytics gives developers a complete toolset to do great things.

Author: ```suggestion
Feature flags also integrate with other analytics insights, so you can breakdown a conversion funnel by a feature flag, or filter trends, paths, and numerous other insights by specific feature flags. Using [Feature Flags](product/feature-flags) and product analytics together gives developers a complete toolset to do great things.
```

Matomo is primarily pitched as a Google Analytics alternative for marketing analytics, and offers useful tools for migrating GA data into Matomo for a seamless transition. Its focus on session tracking makes it ideal for running analytics on large content and e-commerce websites

In contrast, PostHog is a product analytics platform designed to show you what your users do in your product. PostHog is event-based, so it tracks not just what pages users are visiting and how they got there, but also helps you detect, understand and fix user experience problems. 

**Contents:**

- [How is PostHog different to Matomo?](#how-is-posthog-different-from-matomo)
- [PostHog vs Matomo feature comparison](#feature-comparison)
- [Integrations and data sources](#integrations-and-data-sources)
- [Strengths of PostHog](#strengths-of-posthog)
- [Strengths of Matomo](#strengths-of-matomo)
- [Coming soon to PostHog](#coming-soon-to-posthog)

## How is PostHog different from Matomo?

### 1. It's an all-in-one product analytics platform

> Matomo charges extra for product analytics features like funnel analysis, cohorts, path analysis, and session recording, and they're not tightly integrated. In PostHog, these are core features in all editions, including the open source release, while Experimentation is a no cost feature at [less than 1 million events per month](/pricing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matomo charges extra for product analytics features like funnel analysis, cohorts, path analysis, and session recording, and they're not tightly integrated. In PostHog, these are core features in all editions, including the open source release, while [Experimentation](/product/experimentation-suite) is [available for no cost up to 1 million events per month](/pricing).
```

'No cost feature at' reads weird.

### 3. It's built for engineers
PostHog is about giving engineering and product teams the tools they need to build better products. The core product analytics tools are part of this, but we go further by providing market-leading feature flag functionality, and integrating Session Recording so you can deploy one platform that does everything, rather than integrating multiple discrete tools into your stack.

<ArrayCTA />

## Feature comparison

This table compares three self-hosted plans: Matomo On-Premise, PostHog Open Source, and PostHog Scale. 

Matomo On-Premise ships with a robust set of core web analytics features, while advanced product analytics features are available at various prices from the Matomo On-Premise Marketplace.

All features in PostHog Open Source are totally free, including core product analytics tools. 

> PostHog Scale is a paid edition that adds Experimentation, Group Analytics, support for multiple projects, and numerous team management tools. It's priced on a per event basis and is free up to 1 million events per month.

Reviewer: Q: (Mainly from SEO perspective) should we link to the docs whenever we mention a feature?

Author: I try not to over do that, but should probably link the Experimentation product page here.

> PostHog Scale is a paid edition that adds Experimentation, Group Analytics, support for multiple projects, and numerous team management tools. It's priced on a per event basis and is free up to 1 million events per month.

Author: ```suggestion
PostHog Scale is a paid edition that adds [Experimentation](/product/experimentation-suite), [Group Analytics](/docs/user-guides/group-analytics), support for multiple projects, and numerous team management tools. It's priced on a per event basis and is free up to 1 million events per month.
```

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
	<thead>
    	<tr>
          <td className="w-3/12"></td>
        	<td className="w-3/12 text-center"><strong>Matomo On-Premise</strong></td>
        	<td className="w-3/12 text-center"><strong>PostHog Open Source</strong></td>
        	<td className="w-3/12 text-center"><strong>PostHog Scale</strong></td>
    	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
    	<tr>
        	<td><strong>Platform</strong></td>
        	<td></td>
        	<td></td>
        	<td></td>
    	</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>Open source</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>

>         	<td>Host yourself</td>

Reviewer: Any reason we call this 'Host yourself' instead of 'Self-host' as we do everywhere else?

Author: Honestly, I just prefer the phrase in this context. We do use on the homepage, so it's not like we never use it. I dunno, it just reads nicer? Less formal. It's entirely subjective choice!

        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>1st-party cookies</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
   		</tr>
    	<tr>

>         	<td>Custom plugins</td>

Reviewer: Plugins = apps

Author: ```suggestion
        	<td>Custom apps</td>
```

>         	<td>Custom plugins</td>

Author: ```suggestion
        	<td>Custom apps</td>
```

        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
		<tr>
        	<td>Cookie-less option</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td><strong>Features</strong></td>
        	<td></td>
        	<td></td>
        	<td></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Feature Flags</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Retention tracking</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>

>         	<td>Content tracking</td>

Reviewer: Pageview tracking is probably more consistent with docs and more clear (e.g., we track the pageviews, not things like demand gen content)

>         	<td>Content tracking</td>

Author: ```suggestion
        	<td>Pageview tracking</td>
```

        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>UTM tracking</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>User tracking</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>

>         	<td>User profiles</td>

Reviewer: Is 'user tracking' referring to the Persons tool?

Author: User profiles... yes.

Author: Hmm, I realise what you mean now. I think we just remove 'User tracking'. It's a term Matomo uses to bascially refer to tracking unique users, I guess, which seems a bit weird.

        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
		<tr>
        	<td>Funnel analysis</td>
        	<td className="text-center">179 to 529 EUR pa</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Cohorts</td>
        	<td className="text-center">89 to 259 EUR pa</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Path analysis</td>
        	<td className="text-center">89 to 259 EUR pa</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>

>         	<td>Multi-Channel Attribution</td>

Author: It's the name of their feature, for capping is correct.

    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Amazon S3</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td> 
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
   		</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Google BigQuery</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td> 
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Google Pub/Sub</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>RudderStack</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Hubspot</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>

> 		<tr>
>         	<td>Salesforce</td>
>         	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
>         	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
>     	</tr>

Author: ```suggestion
```

          <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>        
    	</tr>
		<tr>
        	<td>Hubspot</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
		<tr>
        	<td>Salesforce</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
		<tr>
        	<td>Zapier</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Zendesk</td>
			<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
          <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>       
    	</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Strengths of PostHog

![PostHog screenshot](../images/blog/gdpr-compliant-analytics/posthog-gdpr-compliant.png)

> ### Feature Flag functionality

Reviewer 2: Is there something to be said here about funnels as you've got a picture of them just above?  Also - you should mention that feature flags are available in the product analytics features so you can break down funnels etc. via feature flag

> ### Feature Flag functionality

Author: ```suggestion
### Feature Flags + product analytics = massive win
```

Author: Have made some tweaks on Simon's suggestion and think we could play around with this heading a bit. Thoughts?

Feature Flags are at the core what makes PostHog a great tool for product-lead businesses. They're especially useful for gradually rolling out new features, and quickly rolling back if you detect problems, but they can be used in other creative ways. 

> Need feedback on a design change? Roll it out to internal users first to gather feedback. Need to optimize messaging for different regions or demographics? Use a feature flag targeted on user properties. Want to change something without the CEO noticing? Create a flag just for them. Ok, we don't actually recommend the latter, but you get the idea.

Author: ```suggestion
Need feedback on a design change? Roll it out to internal users first to gather feedback. Need to optimize messaging for different regions or demographics? Use a feature flag targeted on user properties. Want to change something without the CEO noticing? Create a flag just for them. Ok, we don't actually recommend the latter, but you get the idea.

Feature flags also integrate with other analytics insights, so you can breakdown a conversion funnel by a feature flag, or filter trends, paths, and numerous other insights by specific feature flags. The combination [Feature Flags](product/feature-flags) and product analytics gives developers a complete toolset to do great things.
```

### Privacy compliance and optional cookie-less tracking

Like PostHog, Matomo is a good option for anyone seeking a privacy-respecting analytics platform. While by default it uses cookies, it also offers the option for cookie-less tracking, and features a built-in GDPR Manager utility to help simplify and monitor your compliance. The European Union uses a forked version of Matomo on all its websites.

### Integration with popular content management systems

Matomo is ideal for anyone who uses popular off-the-shelf content management systems or e-commerce platforms. Websites with fewer than 50,000 page views per month can safely install Matomo straight from the WordPress plugin library, and Matomo offers an official integration with WooCommerce as well. There are community integrations for numerous other platforms, including Drupal, Joomla, DatoCMS, Pimcore, and Adobe Commerce.  

## Coming soon to PostHog

> We ship new features fast. Here's a quick snapshot of what we're working on right now:

Author: No. We discussed this last time. We can bulk update them all periodically.

---
date: 2022-05-30
title: PostHog vs Matomo
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true

> categories: ["Guides, Comparisons"]

Author: ```suggestion
categories: ["Guides:, "Comparisons"]
```
